webxdc intro post and home page adjustments (#543)
deltachat/deltachat-pages: _posts/2022-06-14-webxdcintro.md

---
title: Sharing web apps in a chat 
author: holga
image: ../assets/logos/webxdc.png
---

The recently released Delta Chat 1.30 series introduced support for [webxdc apps](https://webxdc.org). You may attach or share a <code>.xdc</code> file containing a HTML5 app to a chat and anyone there can seemlessly "start" interacting with each other.

XXX TODO: VIDEO showing how to share webxdc.org game examples through a chat 

> ## Sharing webxdc apps is pretty safe and easy 

Reviewer: The word 'pretty' makes it sound like it's not entirely safe in a self-deprecating sense, would be more clear to remove it even if we're going for avoiding some kind of liability.

Webxdc apps are started in a locked-down browser sandbox on your own device. 

> Interaction with servers or entities outside the chat is technically prohibited. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Interaction with servers or entities outside the chat is not possible.
```

I'm proposing this, because "technically" means both "technisch" and "praktisch"/"eigentlich" in english, and the latter connotation is a bit uncertain. To some readers it might imply that the prohibition could be circumvented somehow. Not a big deal though.

This is why ".xdc" files need to be self-contained zip-files and bring all needed resources. 
Once started, a webxdc app can send and receive data with anyone 
who also started the webxdc app in the chat. 

> Delta Chat apps takes care of routing internal application updates between chat peers. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Delta Chat app takes care of routing internal application updates between chat peers. 
```

Either that, or `take` without an s ;) but the subject in the sentence can't be singular and plural both.

End-to-end encryption thus comes for free for all webxdc apps. 
Even better, neither Delta chat nor webxdc app developers can gain any access to user data. 
This is why no privacy policy or consent is needed for webxdc apps.

## Writing your own HTML5 webxdc apps 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/I1K4pBvb2pI" width="560" height="315" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen"></iframe>

Webxdc apps are simpler to develop and deploy than traditional web apps. 
You only need basic web development knowledge to get going, 
and do not need to implement logins, user discovery or 

> maintain a platform however "serverless" they claim to be.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
maintain a platform.
```

Like this the sentence doesn't make much sense - I think this "however serverless they claim to be" needs to be explained or set in a context.

Personally I would completely leave it out, we would need to do a lot of explaining to arrive at the point which flavor of "serverless" webxdc is. I mean, servers *are* involved in getting the webxdc updates from one device to the other. So of course webxdc developers don't need to maintain servers, but it's not like webxdc would work completely without servers either.
